# Output

The program will inform the user of what run is currently being processed by
outputting the command it is running to STDOUT, such as this:

```
Running: /opt/structure/bin/structure -K 1 -i input_file.structure -o results_admix/K1_rep10
```

After each run, the corresponding output file is saved to the location chosen in
the `outpath` argument.

When all tasks are performed the program will exit with the message:
```console
```
$ INFO: All *x* jobs finished successfully.
```
```
After these jobs are run, the program will use [Structure Harvester](https://alumni.soe.ucsc.edu/~dearl/software/structureHarvester/) (or "fastChooseK.py" if wrapping *fastStructure*) to infer the optimal value of "K".
Finally, the program will create plots with the inferred clustering, one for each calculated value of "K".
A "Thermodynamic Integration" test will be performed to infer the bestK if using *MavericK*.

## Results

After a successful run, inside the directory you selected as the output directory (let's call it "My_results" for the sake of the example), you will find the following:

* In the root of "My_results" you will find the resulting files for the wrapped program's runs. One file (directory, in the case of *MavericK* and *Neural ADMIXTURE*) for each replicate of "K".
*  Under "My_results/bestK" you will find either the results of the "Evanno test", the results of "fastChooseK.py", or the results of "Thermodynamic Integration" test, depending on what program was wrapped.
* Under "My_results/plots" you will find one plot for each value of "K" in [SVG format](https://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/) and [HTML format](https://www.w3.org/html/).
* If logging was turned on, you will also find a detailed log file for each run in the root of "My_results".

## Obtaining STRUCTURE alpha values

In order to obtain the alpha values of each STRUCTURE run, you can pass the option `--log 1` to *Strucutre_threader*. This will write a file named `K<knum>_rep<rnum>.stlog`, where `knum` and `rnum` are the K value and replicate number respectively. This file contains the STDOUT generated by STRUCTURE. These can be used to plot alpha vs. iteration plots to help assess MCMC chain convergence.
